For 2nd assessment

Explain the use of look-up table to increase the intensity level values with suitable diagram. (4)
What is 3d transformation ? Explain 3d rotation with example and necessary derivations. (2+8)
What is clipping ? Explain cohen sutherland line clipping algorithm. (2+8)
Explain ambient light, diffuse and specular reflection. (6)
Discuss about open GL. (4)
Why hidden line and hidden surface removal techniques are needed ? Explain any one. (4+6)
Discuss the term translation,rotation and scaling for a 2D transformation 
with proper matrix representation. (4)

Determine window to view port transformation for the following dimensions. (6)
			window	viewpoint
Lower lefrt corner	(5,10)	  (8,12)
Upper left corner 	(15,20)	  (12,18)

Discuss Sutherland-HOdgeman algorithm for polygon clipping with example. (8)

Use cohen sutherland algorithm to clip the line for the following dimensions.
    Line end points (15,45) and (25,15)
    Window: Lower left (10,20) and Upper right (30,40)

Explain gouraud shading model with proper derivations and example. (10)
What is object space method and image sace method for visible surface detection ? (4)
What do you mean by illumination models ? Define the terms Ambient light,
diffused reflection and specular reflection with equations for calculating light intensities.(2+8)
Explain 2D window to viewport coordinate transformation. (4)
Explain various types of file format in computer grpahics. (6)
Explain specular reflection method in detail. (4)
What do you mean by illumination models ? Why Phong method is better than Gouraud method ? (2+2)
Explain polygon tables in detail. (10)
Why do we need clipping ? (3)
What is scaling ? Explain 2D fixed point scaling. (2+8)
What is projection ? Explain paralle and perspective projection. (2+8)
What are different surface removal techniques ? Explain z-buffer method. (2+8)

Short notes : (5 each)
Perspective projection
Phong shading models
JPEG nad PNG
Open GL
Bezier curve and spline
Cubic spline method of generating non-planar surfaces
3D transformation
Graphical file format


