For 2nd assessment

Video and animation
Characteristics of television system. Techniques of animation control mechanism. (4+6)
Define computer based animation. Explain methods of controlling animation. (1+4)
Difference between video and animation. Explain different animation languages. (2+3)
Important measures that define visual representation. (5)

Data compression
Advantages and disadvantages of compression technique.
Compare with application area of lossy, lossless and hybrid coding. (4+6)
Explain major steps of data compression in detail. (5)
Explain compression technique for still images. (5)
Importance of compression technique. What are different compression techniques used ?
Explain major steps of data compression. (2+2+6)

Documentation Hypertext and MHEG
Compare hypertext, hypermedia and multimedia. Explain document architecture SGML. (4+6)
Explain open document architecture. (4)

Advanced technologies in multimedia
Explain importance and issue of synchronization. Define MM synchronization with 4 layer reference model. (4+6)
Discuss relation between Oos and resources. Explain resource management architecture in multimedia communication architecture. (4+6)
Describe reference model for multimedia synchronization. (5)
Explain Qos and resource management with figure. (6)
Explain earliest deadline first algorithm. Compare and contrast it with rate monotonic algorithm. (4+6)
What are the abstraction levels used in programming ? Explain
advantages of object oriented approaches in brief. (5+5)
Qos is a keyfactor for quality multimedia communication system. Explain. (5)
What are the concerns for multimedia operating system. Explain. (6)
What are the two real time scheduling algorithm ? Discuss. (6)
Multimedia application should have higher abstraction from multimedia 
hardware detail. Justify. (4)
What is group communication architecture. What are its components ? (5) 
Define Qos. Explain important issues needed to be considered wrt Qos. (1+4)
What is abstraction for programming ? Explain different abstraction level. (1+5)
Define synchronization with inter and intra object synchronization.
Explain MM synchronization with 4 layer reference model. (2+3+5)

Short notes : (5 each)
Real time schedule
Toolkit and libraries
Hypertext hypermedia and multimedia
Transport sub-system
Resource management
Multimedia operating system
MPEG and DVI



