For 2nd assessment

Chapter-2
What is image restoration ? Various types of image enhancement related to point and spatial operation. (3+5)
Describe about image sharpening filters. (5)
Purposes of image enhancement. Image enhancement filters in brief. (10)
What are the different noise present in an image ?
Explain image magnification techniques. (10)
Explain first and second order differential filters. (8)
Short note : Image zooming. (5)
             Types of noise. (5)
             Median filter. (5)
Different types of noise in image. Explain filtering in frequency domain. (10)
How can image enhancement in frequency domain be performed? Explain any two low pass frequency domain filters. (10)
How can you detect edges with gradient filters? Give different first order derivative based (gradient) filters. (5)
What are the usages of derivative based filters. Derive mask for Laplacian second order derivative based filter. (6)
Explain different types of frequency domain low pass filters with expressions and figures. (6)

Chapter-3
Explain in detail the discrete sine Hadamard transformaiton. (10)
Show that FFT is better than Fourier transformation. Explain Hadamard transform. (10)
Write expression for forward and inverse Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) for 2D signal. What are the properties of DFT. (5)
Short note: HAAR transformation. (5)
Define Hadamard Transform and derive the 8x8 transform matrix for Hadamard Transform. (5)


Chapter-4
Difference between dialation and erasion. Explain boundary filling algorithm with example. (10)
What is skeletonization ? Explain dialation and erosion in detail. (3+7)
Differentiate opening and closing. Explain boundary extraction algorithm with example. (10)
Explain the following morphological algorithms: (i) Boundary extraction   (ii) region filling (iii) Pruning (10)
Explain morphological operation with respect to dilation, erosion, opening and closing on binary image. (6)
Short Note : Skeletonization and Prunning (5)

Chapter-5
Types of redundancies. Huffman and LZW coding techniques. (10)
Difference between interframe and intreaframe coding. Explain transform coding based on DCT. (10)
Explain different types of transform coding in detail. (10)
Explain different types of entropy encoding. (10)
Issues of image compression. Explain any two entropy encoding techniques. (10)
Why do we need compression? Encode and decode the phrase ”SHAISHAMSHAI” using LZW coding. (10)
What do you mean by redundancy? Explain various types of redundancy present in an image. (10)
What do you mean by LZW coding? Explain the process of encoding and decoding of string “this is the thing” with LZW
Explain the lossless predictive coding with the help of encoder and decoder block diagram. (6)
From the following probability distribution construct the Huffman Code for each gray level, finally determine the coding efficiency. (6)	
rk	0	1	2	3	4	5
P(rk)	0.5	0.1	0.25	0.15	0.3	0.15


Chapter-6
What is image analysis ? Explain segmentation based on thresholding. (10)
Differentiate crack code and chain code. Describe edge detection based on gradient operator. (10)
What is region growing based segmentation ? Discuss crack code and chain code in brief. (2+8)
Describe image segmentation and template based edge detection. (5+5)
Define image segmentation? Explain the basics concept of region splitting and merging technique of segmentation. (10)
Short Note : Crack and Chain Code. (5)
How can you detect edges with gradient filters? Give different first order derivative based (gradient) filters. (5)
How can you detect a point? Explain. (6)
How can you detect edges with gradient filters? Give different first order derivative based (gradient) filters. (6)
What do you mean by segmentation, give the algorithm for determining value of T (Threshold values). (6)

Chapter-7
Short note: ANN based classifier. (5)
            Match based classifier. (5)
Define pattern and pattern recognition system; explain the issues with feature selection. (5)
What are different steps of pattern recognition? Discuss on ANN based classifiers. (3+5)

Chapter-8
Short note: Self organizing map. (5)
            Hopfield Network. (5)
            Percetron neurons. (5)