1st assessment
Compare optimization problems and decision problems. (4)
Elaborate on asymptotic notation with examples. (6)
Use step count method to analyze the time complexity when two m*n matrices are added. (4)
Derive big 0 notation for given relation. t(n)=2t(n/2)+3n2, t(1)=11 and n=2pow(k) (6)
How divide and conquer method is used to solve a problem ? (4)
Explain convex hull problem using divide and conquer method. (6)
Write general method of greedy technique. (4)
Finding optimal schedules for given tasks with given deadlines and penalties in terms of weight.(6)

What is recurrence relation ? (2)
Estimate the run time of algorithm using master method. (8)
Define greedy paradigm. Explain concept of job sequencing with illustration. (2+3)
Finding optimal job swquence. (8)
What is algorithm analysis ? (2)]
Explain best, worst and average case of algorithm analysis. (8)
What is graph ? Explain shortest path algorithm and its application with dijkstra algorithm. (2+8)
What is divide and conquer technique ? (2) 
Using this technique, write an algorithm of quick sort and the analyze it. (8)
Use kruskal's algorithm for computing minimum spanning tree and analyze its complexity.
Also trace the algorithm for the graph. (10)
Explain Graham's scan algorithm to sompute convex HULL. (10)

What is asymptotic notation ? Define and explain big O, theta and omega notation.(1+5)
Find the best case, worst case and average case running time for binary search algorithm.(4)
Define greedy paradigm. Find optimal job list in sequence with deadlines. (2+8)
Short notes on convex hull, time and space complexity, theta, big O, omega notation.
Discuss algorithm analysis. Explain time and space complexity. (3+7)
What is graph ? Explain shortest path algorithm and its application with dijkstra's algorithm. (2+8)
Prims algorithm for computing minimum spanning tree. (10)
Explain how divide and conquer strategy is used for designing efficient algorithms. (4)
using divide and conquer design an algorithm for binary search and calculate time complexity for worst case. (6)
Define algorithm. Express the asymptotic notation using big O of f(n)=10n2+4n+4. (2+8)
Finding minimum spanning tree using kruskal's alforithm. (6)